---
title: "Creld2 function during unfolded protein response is essential for liver metabolism homeostasis"
collection: publications
category: preprints
permalink: /publication/2020-01-29-Kern
excerpt: ''
date: 2020-01-29
venue: 'BioRxiv'
paperurl: 'https://www.biorxiv.org/content/biorxiv/early/2020/01/29/2020.01.28.923136.full.pdf'
citation: 'Theodore S Kapellos, <b>Lorenzo Bonaguro</b>, Ioanna Gemünd, Nico Reusch, Adem Saglam, Emily R Hinkley, Joachim L Schultze. (2020). &quot;Creld2 function during unfolded protein response is essential for liver metabolism homeostasis&quot; <i>BioRxiv</i>.'
---

The unfolded protein response (UPR) is associated with the hepatic metabolic function, yet it is not well understood how endoplasmic reticulum (ER) disturbance might influence metabolic homeostasis. Here, we describe the physiological function of Cysteine-rich with EGF-like domains 2 (Creld2), previously characterized as a downstream target of the ER-stress signal transducer Atf6. To this end we generated Creld2-deficient mice and induced UPR by injection of tunicamycin. Creld2 augments protein folding and creates an interlink between the UPR axes through its interaction with proteins involved in UPR. Thereby, Creld2 promotes tolerance to ER stress and recovery from acute stress. Creld2-deficiency leads to a dysregulated UPR, and causes the development of hepatic steatosis during ER stress conditions. Moreover, Creld2 enhancement of the UPR assists in the regulation of energy expenditure. Furthermore, we observed a sex dimorphism in humans with fatty liver disease, with only males showing an accumulation of CRELD2 protein in the liver. These results reveal a Creld2 function at the intersection between UPR and metabolic homeostasis and suggest a mechanism in which chronic ER stress underlies fatty liver disease in males.