---
title: "Cost-Efficient Transcriptomic-Based Drug Screening"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-02-23-Leidner
excerpt: 'This paper is about fixing template issue #693.'
date: 2024-02-23
venue: 'Gut'
paperurl: 'https://app.jove.com/t/65930/cost-efficient-transcriptomic-based-drug-screening'
citation: 'Jacqueline Leidner, Heidi Theis, Michael Kraut, Alice Ragogna, Marc Beyer, Joachim Schultze, Jonas Schulte-Schrepping, Caterina Carraro, Lorenzo Bonaguro. (2024). &quot;Cost-Efficient Transcriptomic-Based Drug Screening.&quot; <i>Jove</i>. 204.'
---

**Objective** Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
is a major cause of global illness and death, most commonly
caused by cigarette smoke. The mechanisms of pathogenesis
remain poorly understood, limiting the development of
effective therapies. The gastrointestinal microbiome has been
implicated in chronic lung diseases via the gut‐lung axis, but
its role is unclear.\
**Design** Using an in vivo mouse model of cigarette smoke
(CS)‐induced COPD and faecal microbial transfer (FMT), we
characterised the faecal microbiota using metagenomics,
proteomics and metabolomics. Findings were correlated
with airway and systemic inflammation, lung and gut
histopathology and lung function. Complex carbohydrates
were assessed in mice using a high resistant starch diet, and
in 16 patients with COPD using a randomised, double‐blind,
placebo‐controlled pilot study of inulin supplementation.\
**Results** FMT alleviated hallmark features of COPD
(inflammation, alveolar destruction, impaired lung function),
gastrointestinal pathology and systemic immune changes.
Protective effects were additive to smoking cessation, and
transfer of CS‐associated microbiota after antibiotic‐induced
microbiome depletion was sufficient to increase lung
inflammation while suppressing colonic immunity in the
absence of CS exposure. Disease features correlated with the
relative abundance of Muribaculaceae, Desulfovibrionaceae
and Lachnospiraceae family members. Proteomics and
metabolomics identified downregulation of glucose and
starch metabolism in CS‐associated microbiota, and
supplementation of mice or human patients with complex
carbohydrates improved disease outcomes.