---
title: "Faecal microbial transfer and complex carbohydrates mediate protection against COPD"
collection: publications
category: manuscript
permalink: /publication/2024-05-01-Budden
excerpt: 'This paper is about fixing template issue #693.'
date: 2024-05-01
venue: 'Gut'
paperurl: 'https://gut.bmj.com/content/gutjnl/73/5/751.full.pdf'
citation: 'Kurtis F Budden, Shakti D Shukla, Kate L Bowerman, Annalicia Vaughan, Shaan L Gellatly, David LA Wood, Nancy Lachner, Sobia Idrees, Saima Firdous Rehman, Alen Faiz, Vyoma K Patel, Chantal Donovan, Charlotte A Alemao, Sj Shen, Nadia Amorim, Rajib Majumder, Kanth S Vanka, Jazz Mason, Tatt Jhong Haw, Bree Tillet, Michael Fricker, Simon Keely, Nicole Hansbro, Gabrielle T Belz, Jay Horvat, Thomas Ashhurst, Caryn van Vreden, Helen McGuire, Barbara Fazekas de St Groth, Nicholas JC King, Ben Crossett, Stuart J Cordwell, Lorenzo Bonaguro, Joachim L Schultze, Emma E Hamilton‐Williams, Elizabeth Mann, Samuel C Forster, Matthew A Cooper, Leopoldo N Segal, Sanjay H Chotirmall, Peter Collins, Rayleen Bowman, Kwun M Fong, Ian A Yang, Peter AB Wark, Paul G Dennis, Philip Hugenholtz, Philip M Hansbro. (2024). &quot;Faecal microbial transfer and complex carbohydrates mediate protection against COPD.&quot; <i>Gut</i>. 73(5).'
---

**Objective** Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
is a major cause of global illness and death, most commonly
caused by cigarette smoke. The mechanisms of pathogenesis
remain poorly understood, limiting the development of
effective therapies. The gastrointestinal microbiome has been
implicated in chronic lung diseases via the gut‐lung axis, but
its role is unclear.\
**Design** Using an in vivo mouse model of cigarette smoke
(CS)‐induced COPD and faecal microbial transfer (FMT), we
characterised the faecal microbiota using metagenomics,
proteomics and metabolomics. Findings were correlated
with airway and systemic inflammation, lung and gut
histopathology and lung function. Complex carbohydrates
were assessed in mice using a high resistant starch diet, and
in 16 patients with COPD using a randomised, double‐blind,
placebo‐controlled pilot study of inulin supplementation.\
**Results** FMT alleviated hallmark features of COPD
(inflammation, alveolar destruction, impaired lung function),
gastrointestinal pathology and systemic immune changes.
Protective effects were additive to smoking cessation, and
transfer of CS‐associated microbiota after antibiotic‐induced
microbiome depletion was sufficient to increase lung
inflammation while suppressing colonic immunity in the
absence of CS exposure. Disease features correlated with the
relative abundance of Muribaculaceae, Desulfovibrionaceae
and Lachnospiraceae family members. Proteomics and
metabolomics identified downregulation of glucose and
starch metabolism in CS‐associated microbiota, and
supplementation of mice or human patients with complex
carbohydrates improved disease outcomes.