---
title: "Disease-associated microglia and activation of CD8+ T cells precede neuronal cell loss in a model of hereditary spastic paraplegia"
collection: publications
category: preprints
permalink: /publication/2024-09-02-Frolov
excerpt: 'This paper is about fixing template issue #693.'
date: 2024-09-02
venue: 'BioRxiv'
paperurl: 'https://www.biorxiv.org/content/biorxiv/early/2024/09/03/2024.09.02.610538.full.pdf'
citation: 'Aleksej Frolov, Hao Huang, Dagmar Schütz, Maren Köhne, Nelli Blank-Stein, Collins Osei-sarpong, Maren Büttner, Tarek Elmzzahi, Mukhran Khundadze, Matthias Becker, Lorenzo Bonaguro, Christian A Hübner, Kristian A Händler, Ralf Stumm, Elvira Mass, Marc Beyer. (2024). &quot;Disease-associated microglia and activation of CD8+ T cells precede neuronal cell loss in a model of hereditary spastic paraplegia".&quot; <i>BioRvix</i>.'
---

In central nervous system (CNS) diseases characterized by late-onset neurodegeneration, the interplay between innate and adaptive immune responses remains poorly understood. This knowledge gap is amplified by the prolonged nature of these diseases, complicating the delineation of brain-resident and infiltrating cells. Here, we conducted a comprehensive profiling of innate and adaptive immune cells across various CNS regions in a murine model of spastic paraplegia 15 (SPG15), a complicated form of hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP). Using fate-mapping of bone marrow-derived cells via genetic labeling, we identified microgliosis and microglial MHC-II upregulation accompanied by infiltration and local expansion of T cells in the CNS of Spg15-/- mice. Single-cell analysis revealed an increase of disease-associated microglia (DAM) and clonal expansion of effector CD8+ T cells across CNS regions occurring prior to neuronal loss. Analysis of potential cell-cell communication pathways suggested bidirectional interactions between DAM and effector CD8+ T cells potentially contributing to disease progression in Spg15-/- mice. In summary, we identified a shift in microglial phenotypes associated with recruitment and clonal expansion of T cells as a new characteristic of Spg15-driven neuropathology. Targeting activated microglia, CD8+ T cells and their communication represent promising avenues to prevent the loss of neuronal function in HSP.